---
layout: default
title: Fields of Athenry 10km
permalink: index.html
---
The 12th running of the Fields of Athenry 10km will take place on St. Stephen's day, December 26th at 11am.

## Entry is now closed.
Reminder - No entries available on the day!

## Race numbers are available for collection from 9:30am in Presentation College Athenry Sports Hall.

### Update on Dec 26th.
Some approach roads are a little slippy around the town, but a good thaw is already in progress, and we'll be good to go at 11am.
Race HQ is open and we'll be be ready to start handing out race numbers very shortly. The race is sold-out and no new enties will be taken this morning.

<strike>In the hopefully unlikely event that inclement weather puts a spanner in the works, we will update the website www.athenryac.com and 10km.athenryac.com as soon as possible</strike>.
While there is a good amount of parking in the School grounds, there is more parking near the railway station for those travelling from the North.
As people exit off the new motorway, take the very first exit, don't go into the town centre, head across the railway line towards the Raheen Woods Hotel. Take the new road through the Raheen Industrial estate, and park at the railway station. This route will be marked with signs.

It would life easier for everybody if people could car-pool to take the pressure off parking.

No numbers are issued by post. Race packs will be available for collection from 9:30am on the morning on the race at our Race HQ in Presentation College Athenry. Your souvenir hat is also provided then, and copies of our race programme will also be available. Registration closes at 10:45am sharp.
Your race pack contains your race number which should be worn on your front, safety pins provided, and MUST be visible at all times.
Also in the pack is your timing chip. This should be attached to one of your shoes using the ties provided. Please follow the instructions provided at registration.

We have pacers in operation on the day for 40, 45, 50, 55 & 60 minutes. They will have a luminous yellow t-shirt with ‘Pacer’ wrote on it & will have a balloon corresponding to their finish time.

There is a Juvenile race which takes a loop through the town and is 1km long. This race starts adjacent to the North Gate Arch (See attached Map) and finishes under the Arch. Registration is also in the Presentation College Hall from 9.00am but closes at 10.00am for a race start of 10.15am sharp.

Tea, coffee and other refreshments are provided in the hall downstairs after the race from 11:30am, and we hope to have our prizegiving at 1pm.

### For enquires, [contact Frank Burke, race director](mailto:10km@athenryac.com?subject=10km Race Enquiry).

Over the last number of years this has has become one of the leading road races in the country, and this year we aim to raise the bar higher. The race takes in a loop of the fields and finishes under the medival arch in Athenry. 

##‘Fields’ 10km Teams Up With Tidy Towns
Athenry AC, hosts of the nationally famous ‘Fields of Athenry 10km’ road race each Dec 26th, has this year announced a tie-in with the Athenry Tidy Towns Committee. A contribution from the proceeds from this year’s race will be made to support the work of the Tidy Town Committee.

Over the last few years, both groups have contributed significantly to the development of the Athenry. The athletics club has an active and growing membership of both adult and juvenile runners that travel the length and breadth of the country to participate in road races, track and field and cross-country events. 

For its part, the Athenry Tidy Town Committee has worked ceaselessly over the years to improve the local environment. Throughout the year, the committee’s volunteers can be seen all over town, with spades, brooms and paint brushes in hand, doing their good work.

